.TH CLIP_USB_KEYS 8 "DECEMBER 2008" Linux "CLIP Utilities"
.SH NAME
clip_usb_keys \- Clip removable mass-storage manager
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clip_usb_keys
is a set of tools managing signed and signed/encrypted USB mass-storage
tokens and CD-ROMS (a later addition, hence the name) on CLIP systems.
.PP
.BR hotplug
is an executable called by the linux kernel on each hotplug event.
It checks if the event received is related to the insertion
or the removal of a device.
On all insertions, 
.BR hotplug
calls 
.BR hotplug.ADD.sh.
On all removalls,
.BR hotplug
calls
.BR hotplug.DEL.sh.
.PP
.BR usbadmin
is a daemon which communicates with the client executable
.BR usbclt
( see
.I clip_usb_clt (8)
) through a UNIX socket in a given CLIP jail. That jail is determined by the name
under which 
.BR usbadmin
is called. For example, a symlink called 
.BR usbadmin_rm_h
and pointing to
.BR usbadmin
will create a listening socket in the rm_h jail).
It can perform the following actions depending on the command received
from
.BR usbclt.
.PP
\-
.I UMOUNT
launches the script
.BR umount_usb.sh
which will umount the USB token mounted in the specified jail (and remove any associated
cryptographic mappings).
.PP
\-
.I INIT
launches the script
.BR init_usb_key.sh
to initialize a signed and encrypted USB token for the specified jail level.
.PP
\-
.I INIT-CLEARTEXT
launches the script
.BR init_usb_key.sh
to initialize a signed (but not encrypted) USB token for the specified jail level.
.PP
\-
.I GENERATE
launches the script
.BR generate_usb_keys.sh
which will generate new RSA keys for the specified level
.PP
\-
.I EXPORT
launches the script
.BR export_usb_keys.sh
which will export the RSA keys for the specified level on the last connected USB mass-storage
token that was not automatically mounted as a CLIP token. That token must be formated as VFAT, 
using the first available partition number.
.PP
\-
.I CD_MOUNT
launches the script
.BR mount_cdrom.sh
which mounts a (unique) CD-ROM at the specified level.
.PP
\-
.I CD_UMOUNT
launches the script
.BR umount_cdrom.sh
which unmounts a CD_ROM at the specified level.
.PP
\-
.I UPDATE_CD_MOUNT
launches the script
.BR mount_cdrom.sh
to mount a (unique) CD-ROM in the UPDATE jail.
.PP
\-
.I UPDATE_CD_UMOUNT
launches the script
.BR umount_cdrom.sh
to unmount the CD-ROM mounted in the UPDATE jail.
.PP
The logs are stored using 
.BR logger (1).
.SH AUTHORS
SGDN/DCSSI ( Vincent Strubel -
.I clipos@ssi.gouv.fr
)
.PP
EADS Innovation Works and EADS Defence And Security Systems
.PP
